Add target reference - #72 (#76)
metalbear-co/mirrord.dev: content/docs/reference/targets/index.md

---
title: "Targets"
description: "Possible targets for mirrord and how to set them"
date: 2023-05-08T07:50:11+02:00
lastmod: 2023-05-08T07:50:11+02:00
draft: false
images: []
menu:
  docs:
    parent: "reference"
weight: 110
toc: true
---

## Overview

You can specify a target on your cluster for mirrord, giving your local application
access to the remote target's network environment, file system and environment variables, according to the
[configuration](https://mirrord.dev/docs/overview/configuration/).
When a target is specified, a [mirrord-agent](/docs/overview/architecture/#mirrord-agent) pod will be created on the same
node as the target pod.
The several kinds of supported targets are detailed below. There are also multiple ways to specify a
target for mirrord: you can do it in a configuration file, in an IDE dialog, or in the CLI with an argument or an
environment variable.

> ### Running without a target

Reviewer: The section order's a bit weird - since the page is about targets, I think "Running without a target" should be the last section, after Specifying a Target (and should be a ## header)

Author: Done

When no target is specified, mirrord will start a *targetless* agent. That can be useful when you want to connect to
services from within the cluster, but you don't have any target that you want to "impersonate" - like when running an external utility or a new microservice. When running
targetless, mirrord will forward any connections initiated by your application to be sent out of the cluster, but it
will not mirror or steal incoming traffic, as a targetless agent is not connected to any Kubernetes service and does not
expose any ports. This means that if your application binds a port and listens on it, that will all happen locally,
on your machine. So if you're using a management program that exposes a web interface, you can have it listen for
connections on `localhost`, and connect to remote services in the cluster.

In order to run targetless, you need to not specify a target in the configuration file, in case you are using one.
In your IDE you can pick the `No Target ("targetless")` option in the target selection dialog (or just not make a
selection).
Moreover, you should make sure [the environment variable used to specify a target](#using-an-environment-variable)

> isn't set (or is set to an empty value) if you want to run targetless.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
isn't set (or is set to an empty value).
```

targetless, mirrord will forward any connections initiated by your application to be sent out of the cluster, but it
will not mirror or steal incoming traffic, as a targetless agent is not connected to any Kubernetes service and does not
expose any ports. This means that if your application binds a port and listens on it, that will all happen locally,
on your machine. So if you're using a management program that exposes a web interface, you can have it listen for
connections on `localhost`, and connect to remote services in the cluster.

In order to run targetless, you need to not specify a target in the configuration file, in case you are using one.
In your IDE you can pick the `No Target ("targetless")` option in the target selection dialog (or just not make a
selection).
Moreover, you should make sure [the environment variable used to specify a target](#using-an-environment-variable)
isn't set (or is set to an empty value).

> **Note:** In order to set the namespace the agent is going to be created in, set the agent namespace, not the

> > target namespace. That value can be set via the [`agent.namespace` configuration file field](https://mirrord.dev/docs/overview/configuration/#agent-namespace), the -a CLI argument,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> target namespace. That value can be set via the [`agent.namespace` configuration file field](https://mirrord.dev/docs/overview/configuration/#agent-namespace), the `-a` CLI argument,
```

---
title: "Targets"
description: "Possible targets for mirrord and how to set them"
date: 2023-05-08T07:50:11+02:00
lastmod: 2023-05-08T07:50:11+02:00
draft: false
images: []
menu:
  docs:
    parent: "reference"
weight: 110
toc: true
---

## Overview

You can specify a target on your cluster for mirrord. When specified, mirrord will give your local application
access to the remote target's network environment, file system and environment variables, according to the
configuration (you can specify a target but tell mirrord not to access its file system, for example).
When a target is specified, [mirrord's agent](/docs/overview/architecture/#mirrord-agent) will be created on the same
node as the target pod.

> There are several kinds of possible targets, that are explained below. There are also multiple ways to specify a

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The several kinds of supported targets are detailed below. There are also multiple ways to specify a
```

> target for mirrord - you can specify it in a configuration file, in an IDE dialog, or on CLI with an argument or an

Reviewer: ```suggestion
target for mirrord: you can specify it in a configuration file, in an IDE dialog, or in the CLI with an argument or an
```

> environment variable.

Author: Nice, thanks!

### Running without a target

When no target is specified, mirrord will start a *targetless* agent. That can be useful when you want to connect to

> services from within the cluster, but you don't have any target that you want to "impersonate". When running

Reviewer: ```suggestion
services from within the cluster, but you don't have any target that you want to "impersonate" - like when running an external utility or a new microservice. When running
```

targetless, mirrord will forward any connections initiated by your application to be sent out of the cluster, but it

> will not mirror or steal incoming traffic, as a targetless agent is not connected to any kubernetes service and does not

Reviewer: ```suggestion
will not mirror or steal incoming traffic, as a targetless agent is not connected to any Kubernetes service and does not
```

expose any ports. This means that if your application binds a port and listens on it, that will all happen locally,

> on your machine. You can use this fact to run management programs (like e.g. pgAdmin) and have them listen for

Reviewer: Is this an actual use case?

Reviewer: Just not familiar with it - does pgAdmin expose its UI on localhost or something?

Author: Changed it to be more general in https://github.com/metalbear-co/mirrord.dev/pull/76/commits/bd27045856f21e3c3de18f9983a9c82574119cc1.

connections on `localhost`, but connect to remote services in the cluster.

In order to run targetless, you need to not specify a target in the configuration file, in case you are using one.
In your IDE you can pick the `No Target ("targetless")` option in the target selection dialog (or just not make a
selection).

> Moreover, the [environment variable used to specify a target](#using-an-environment-variable) has to be unset

Reviewer: Phrasing should be more like, "you should make sure the environment variable... isn't set".

Author: Changed to this phrasing.

(or set to an empty value) if you want to run targetless.

> > **Note:** In order to set the namespace the agent is going to be created in, set the agent namespace, not the

Reviewer: Perhaps this should just link to the configuration docs?

Reviewer: Sure, haven't thought of that

> > target namespace. That value can be set via the `agent.namespace` configuration file field, the -a CLI argument,

Author: ```suggestion
> target namespace. That value can be set via the `agent.namespace` [configuration file](https://mirrord.dev/docs/overview/configuration/) field, the -a CLI argument,
```

> or the `MIRRORD_AGENT_NAMESPACE` environment variable.

## Possible targets

You can either target a pod or a deployment, and you can also name a specific container in that deployment or pod to
target. When targeting a pod without specifying a container, the first container found in that pod will be targeted.

> When targeting a deployment without specifying a container, the first container of the first pod found in the

Reviewer: Impersonating all pods in a deployment is supported in [mirrord for Teams](https://metalbear.co/#waitlist-form).

Author: Added this sentence in line 51.

> deployment will be used.

Author: ```suggestion
deployment will be used (impersonating all pods in a deployment is supported in [mirrord for teams](https://metalbear.co/#waitlist-form)).
```

> You can specify a target namespace if the target should be found in that namespace instead of the namespace that is

Reviewer: I'd move this down to line 86 (see comment)

Author: Are you sure? Because line 86 talks about the configuration file specifically, and this line here only says that you can set the namespace and then each section (configuration, CLI, env var) tells the user how to set the namespace that way.

I think it's good for a reader to know at this point that they can set the namespace, and then jump to their preferred interface to see how exactly they can set it.

Reviewer: Okay convinced

currently used by `kubectl`. See the different interfaces below for possible ways of specifying the target and its
namespace.

## Specifying a target

There are multiple ways to specify a target for a run. You can pick whichever one is most convenient for you.
In all the possible interfaces for specifying a target, the basic format is `<resource-type>/<resource-name>`

> followed by optional `/container/<container-name>`. So for specifying a target without specifying a container you

Reviewer: ```suggestion
optionally followed by `/container/<container-name>`. So for specifying a target without specifying a container you
```

can pass

> ```
> deployment/<YOUR-DEPLOYMENT-NAME>
> ```
> e.g. `deployment/lolz`,
> 

Author: ```suggestion
```

```
deploy/<YOUR-DEPLOYMENT-NAME>
```
e.g. `deploy/lolz`,

or
```
pod/<YOUR-POD-NAME>
```
e.g. `pod/lolz-64698df9b7-6plq8`,

And for also specifying a container, you just add `/container/<CONTAINER-NAME>` at the end, e.g.
`pod/lolz-64698df9b7-6plq8/container/main-container`.

### Using a configuration file

The target path from the last section is set under the `target.path` field. The target's namespace can be set under

> `target.namespace`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`target.namespace`. By default, the namespace currently specified in the local `kubeconfig` is used.
```

```json
{
  "target": {
    "path": "pod/lolz-64698df9b7-6plq8/container/main-container",
    "namespace": "lolzspace"
  }
}
```

### Using an IDE's dialog

> If you are running from your IDE with the mirrord extension/plugin, and you didn't specify a target via a

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you are running one of mirrord's IDE extensions and you didn't specify a target via a
```

configuration file, a dialog will pop up for you to pick a target. If you want to choose a target from a different

> namespace than the one currently configured to be used by `kubectl`, you can set a target namespace in the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
namespace you can set a target namespace in the
```

> [configuration file](#using-a-configuration-file), and the dialog will then contain potential targets out of that

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[configuration file](#using-a-configuration-file), and the dialog will then contain targets in that
```
